Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course in Tableau. In today's tutorial
we're going to prepare all workbook so
that when we actually start talking
about level of detail calculations we're
not going to waste time on importing
data set and doing all of the groundwork.
So let's get straight into it. I'm going
to open up Tableau and here we're going
to connect an excel file which is going
to be on Megamerchandise.xlsx and
here we already know a little bit about
data, we know that it contains two tabs,
its got a list of orders and order breakdown.
So if you look at list of orders, you'll
see that here we've got a unique order
IDs in this column and then for every
order ID we've got some information. So
who is the person that ordered it? When
was it ordered? Where it was ordered from,
including possible code and so on and
then if we close this and we look at the
order break down you'll see that
actually order IDs can consist of
multiple items. So order ID might be
single but then it might contain several
items within it, so for instance here
we've got an order ID that contains two
rows here, meaning that it has two items
within that order ID. Then here's another
good example, this order ID has three
items within and that is what this tab
shows us it shows us the breakdown
actually shows us also the sales, the
profit for each particular item so that
is a very handy tab as well and in order
to get the full view of the data
that we're going to have to combine them.
So that's what we're going to do now,
we're going to take list of orders, take
order breakdown, connect them and make
sure that we're using an inner join
here and that order ID is the field that
we're joining on and that is correct and
here we're going to just change this to
a large number for instance a hundred
thousand and that will show us the total number of
rows 8,028 and now if we just sort this
by order ID you'll see that here for
example we've got the first order which
we saw was unique in list of orders but
in order to break down it had two items
within, so what happened here so I
highlighted here you can see that on the
right here,
this is the order breakdown part of
things. Here you've got the two separate
items from that order and what happened
in the inner join is that the rows from
the left data set from list of orders
were duplicated so this row was
duplicated identical as you can see
these two identical in order to match
the number of items and same thing
happened for this order over here which
had three items you can see that on the
right you've got the three different
items three different rows here, but
this row which was unique in the list of
orders data set here it's actually been
triplicated. Alright so that shows us
that the join has been performed
correctly and also you can just confirm
that 8,028 is indeed the natural number
of items if you just look at order
breakdown by itself you'll see that
there is total 8,028 items meaning we
haven't lost in Euros in the process
which is good and now we can simply
proceed to sheet one and one more thing
that we need to do here is we need to
create a hierarchies for our
geography. So we've got state, postal code,
country and city. So just take any two of
them. City drag it on top of state.
This creates a hierarchy name we call
geography, you can all geographical
hierarchy can call it anything you like
and here we've got state and city so
we're going to add country into it as
well above state and then we're going to
add postal code below city. So there we
go now geography is ready and we can
just simply drag country in here and
then or we don't have to do that we just
click this plus sign and you can see
that now we've got all the states we can
drill down to the city level if we like,
or we can go down to the post code level.
So you can see that not much changes but
actually they are a few cities that
contains several post codes and we'll
that'll be something I'll be looking at
further down in this section. So there we
go, our preparation's done, just make sure to
save your workbook to finish off. I'm
going to save file, save as section 6.
There we go alright and hope you enjoyed
this tutorial. I look forward to seeing
you next time and until
then, happy analyzing.